scout: vulnerability exceptions m1 (#19700)
docker/docs: content/scout/exceptions.md

---

> title: Manage vulnerability exceptions

Reviewer: Tazin was keen on addressing (via documentation) the use case where image producers want to tell their image consumers about false positives. We have nothing specifically in Scout to help with this, but in theory an advantage of attaching VEX statements to the registry on a publicly available image is that image consumers can download and view these documents. Not sure whether we can include this advantage in our docs without losing clarity.

Author: Added a sentence about it being possible for consumers to inspect attestations from a registry. Doing the actual inspection is a little bit tedious right now, if it means doing it by the CLI (needs multiple `buildx imagetools inspect` commands, or alternatively `crane`) maybe there will be some UI magic that makes this a better experience, I'll have to check when I can do the e2e test with the dashboard.

> title: Manage vulnerability exceptions

Reviewer: To begin with, we don't have in-product help to deal with incorrect VEX statements (eg. wrong CVE ID, malformed statement). We could, however, suggest that users make use of the CLI VEX capabilities to ensure their statement is correct before adding to a registry. What do you think? Maybe a final section on "Debugging VEX statements" or "Fixing problems with VEX statements" or "Testing VEX statements locally" that points the user towards this capability might be useful?

Author: Probably a good idea. I am not very well-versed with the `vexctl` cli to be able to provide any useful tips on how to e.g. debug a malformed vex statement. @chrispatrick do you have any suggestions for what we could put in a section like this?

Reviewer: @dvdksn Sorry, I wasn't very clear with my suggestion there. I was referring to the `docker scout cves` command and the `--vex-location` flag you documented previously. If a user had a local image, and a VEX file in a directory, then they ran this and it *didn't* do what they expected, that would give them some feedback there was a problem with their file.

Author: @dansmithy I added a section at the bottom of the page... let me know what you think

The VEX document states that the image `example/app:v1` contains an npm package
`express@4.17.1` that is unaffected by CVE with ID `CVE-2022-24999`. The
justification for the `not_affected` status is that the vulnerable code is
never executed in containers that run this image.

```console
$ vexctl create \
  --author="author@example.com" \
  --product="pkg:docker/example/app@v1" \
  --subcomponents="pkg:npm/express@4.17.1" \
  --vuln="CVE-2022-24999" \
  --status="not_affected" \
  --justification="vulnerable_code_not_in_execute_path" \
  --file="CVE-2022-24999.vex.json"
```

The [OpenVEX specification](https://github.com/openvex/spec) dictates the
format and structure of OpenVEX documents and statements. Refer to the
specification to learn more about the available fields and how to create a
well-formed OpenVEX document.

To learn more about the available flags and syntax of the `vexctl` CLI tool and how to install it,
refer to the [`vexctl` GitHub repository](https://github.com/openvex/vexctl).

For an introduction to VEX, you may also want to check out this use-case guide:
[Suppress image vulnerabilities with VEX](./guides/vex.md).

> ## Attach exceptions to images

Author: Yes I think this is a good shout.

One thing, I'm not sure the argument that you can change them later necessarily applies to attestations. You can add more attestations, but you can't easily remove or update an existing attestations without tampering with the image index. So I guess the benefit that we really can highlight here is that you don't need to have the VEX documents ready at build-time, but you can add them later.

> ## Attach exceptions to images

Reviewer: @dvdksn Yes, that's true. The way a user would "update" would be to provide a new attestation that took precedence over the previous one (by virtue of being more recent). We won't have that precedence functionality worked out to begin with, but once we do we can document it.

attestation add` CLI command.

Using attestations is the recommended option for attaching exceptions to
images. You can attach attestations to the image after it's built and pushed to
a registry, meaning you don't need to create the VEX documents before you
build. Additionally, having the exceptions attached to the image as
attestations means consumers can inspect the exceptions for an image, directly
from the registry.

To attach an attestation to an image:

1. Build the image and push it to a registry.

   ```console
   $ docker build --provenance=true --sbom=true --tag <IMAGE> --push .
   ```

2. Attach the exception to the image as an attestation.

   ```console
   $ docker scout attestation add \
     --file <cve-id>.vex.json \
     --predicate-type https://openvex.dev/ns/v0.2.0 \
     <IMAGE>
   ```

## View exceptions

The **Exceptions** page on the [Docker Scout Dashboard](https://scout.docker.com/)
lists the exceptions for all images in your organization. Selecting a row in
the list opens the exception side panel, which displays more information about
the exception and where it comes from.

To view all exceptions for a specific image tag:

{{< tabs >}}

> {{< tab name="Dashboard" >}}

Reviewer 2: **suggestion:** Connected to [my previous comment](https://github.com/docker/docs/pull/19700/files#r1547370090), if we do remove step one maybe it's good if we clarify what "Dashboard" we are referring to.
```suggestion
{{< tab name="Docker Scout Dashboard" >}}
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe this is a docs wide change rather than a fix just here?

Author: Good callout. I think when I first started using these we only had the scout dashboard, now there's a few (dbc, admin, maybe more coming) let me update to be clear.

> 1. Open the [Docker Scout Dashboard](https://scout.docker.com/).
> 2. Go to the **Images** page.
> 3. Select the tag that you want to inspect.
> 4. Open to the **Image attachments** tab.

Reviewer 2: **suggestion:**
```suggestion
1. Go to the [Images page](https://scout.docker.com/reports/images).
2. Select the tag that you want to inspect.
3. Open to the **Image attachments** tab.
```

---
title: Manage vulnerability exceptions
description: |
  Exceptions let you provide additional context and documentation for how
  vulnerabilities affect your artifacts, and provides the ability to
  suppress non-applicable vulnerabilities
keywords: scout, cves, suppress, vex, exceptions
---

Vulnerabilities found in container images sometimes need additional context.
It's often the case that vulnerabilities require more nuance than a CVSS score
or a severity rating, when viewed in the context of an software application.

> **Exceptions** provide a way to describe this additional context, and attach

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure this is quite right.

- Exceptions are specifically about allowing an organisation to document reasons why a particular vulnerability instance does not need to be addressed. It doesn't allow for attaching purely informational context.
- Exceptions are also not something we can really attach to images, they are a set of Scout-specific rules for how Scout should treat certain vulnerabilities in certain images.

This might be down to some confusion about the difference between VEX statements and Exceptions?

Reviewer 3: While M1 only allows for Exceptions based off VEX statements, conceptually they are two different things.

Author: thanks @chrispatrick - sorry for convoluting stuff. I've removed the bits talking about "acceptable risk" and focused strictly on negating false positives.

For the time being, I'd like to clearly call out that we achieve this using VEX documents. When that changes and we have other ways of managing exceptions, we'll get this doc updated to reflect the different options available.

---
title: Manage vulnerability exceptions
description: |
  Exceptions let you provide additional context and documentation for how
  vulnerabilities affect your artifacts, and provides the ability to
  suppress non-applicable vulnerabilities
keywords: scout, cves, suppress, vex, exceptions
---

Vulnerabilities found in container images sometimes need additional context.
Just because an image contains a vulnerable package, it doesn't mean that the
vulnerability is exploitable. **Exceptions** in Docker Scout lets you address
false positives in image analysis using VEX documents.

By negating non-applicable vulnerabilities, you can make it easier for yourself
and downstream consumers of your images to understand the security implications

> of a vulnerability in the context an image.

Reviewer 4: in the context **of** an image (missing "of")

   ```console
   $ docker build --provenance=true --sbom=true --tag <IMAGE> --push .
   ```

2. Attach the exception to the image as an attestation.

   ```console
   $ docker scout attestation add \
     --file <cve-id>.vex.json \
     --predicate-type https://openvex.dev/ns/v0.2.0 \
     <IMAGE>
   ```

## View exceptions

The **Exceptions** page on the [Docker Scout Dashboard](https://scout.docker.com/)
lists the exceptions for all images in your organization. Selecting a row in
the list opens the exception side panel, which displays more information about
the exception and where it comes from.

To view all exceptions for a specific image tag:

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab name="Docker Scout Dashboard" >}}

1. Go to the [Images page](https://scout.docker.com/reports/images).
2. Select the tag that you want to inspect.
3. Open the **Image attachments** tab.

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="Docker Desktop" >}}

1. Open the **Images** view in Docker Desktop.
2. Open the **Hub** tab.
3. Select the tag you want to inspect.
4. Open the **Image attachments** tab.

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Debugging VEX documents

Adding a VEX document to an image doesn't automatically validate the document.

> The `vexctl` command line tool 

Reviewer 4: incomplete sentence?

Author: oops, didn't mean to keep this! thanks

To test whether the VEX documents you create are well-formed and produce the

> expected results, you can use the `docker scout cves` command with the

Reviewer 4: should we elaborate on what's meant by expected results so users know what they need to look out for?

`--vex-location` flag to apply a local VEX document to an image analysis.

The following examples shows how to run an image analysis with a local VEX
document. The argument for `--vex-location` is the path of a local directory
that contains one or more VEX documents. In this example, the current working
directory.

```console
$ docker scout cves <IMAGE> --vex-location .
```

> The output of the `docker scout cves` command should factor in any VEX

Reviewer 4: Can we clarify here what "factor in" means? Need to double check with engineering, but at the very least this means that the exception CVE will be excluded from the output

Author: yes, I will give that as an example. I don't think we need to discuss any other statuses here, as this is about exceptions.
